---
title: MX80
permalink: /MX80/
---

The MX80 Ethernet Services router is a compact Ethernet-optimized edge router that provides both switching and carrier-class Ethernet routing. The MX80 router has a capacity of up to 40 gigabits per second (Gbps) full duplex, high-density Ethernet interfaces, and high-capacity switching throughput.

The MX80 router is available either as a fixed chassis or a modular chassis.

The MX80 router is a single-board router with a built-in Routing Engine and one Packet Forwarding Engine (PFE), which can have up to two Modular Interface Cards (MICs). (A Services PIC slot is currently not supported.) The PFE has two “pseudo” Flexible PIC Concentrators (FPC 0 and FPC1). Because there is no switching fabric, the single PFE takes care of both ingress and egress packet forwarding.

On both routers, the four built-in 10-Gigabit Ethernet ports are mapped to FPC 0. On the modular MX80 router, the MIC slots are mapped to FPC 1. On the fixed MX80 router, the 48 built-in 10/100/1000Base-TX-RJ45 ports are mapped to FPC 1.

The MX80 platform comprises a Routing Engine processor, which includes a 1.33-GHz CPU, and 2 GB of SDRAM. 2x 4-GB NAND flash storage devices. A Packet Forwarding Engine processor, which includes a 1-GHz CPU, a system controller, and 1 GB of SDRAM.

MX80 Modular Chassis
--------------------

The modular MX80 router includes the following hardware features:

-   2 U high
-   Two slots that support the following Modular Interface Cards (MICs): 20-port Gigabit Ethernet MIC with SFP, 2-port 10-Gigabit Ethernet MIC with XFP, and 40-port Gigabit Ethernet MIC (dual-wide)
-   Four built-in 10-Gigabit Ethernet ports
-   JUNOS Trio chipset for increased scalability of L2/L3 packet forwarding, buffering, and queuing

MX80-48T Fixed Chassis
----------------------

[500px](/File:mx80-48t.jpg "wikilink")

The fixed MX48 router includes 4 built-in 10-Gigabit Ethernet ports and 48 built-in 10/100/1000Base-TX-RJ45 ports.

[Category:Hardware](/Category:Hardware "wikilink") [Category:MX-series](/Category:MX-series "wikilink") [Category:Stub](/Category:Stub "wikilink")

Caveats
-------

The MX80 software (on JUNOS 11.2R1.10) does not recognize a second inserted PEM if its feed is not connected, even though the status LED of the inserted PEM will start flashing red. The command `show` `chassis` `environment` will *not* display a second PEM, yet the command `show` `chassis` `environment` `pem` *will* display the second PEM as `absent`. After both feeds are connected, the PEMs will be visible in the environment.
If only one PEM is connected, the other PEM slot state will be `Empty` as expected.