---
title: MX960
permalink: /MX960/
---

The [MX960](/MX960 "wikilink") ([Codename:](/codenames "wikilink") *Harry*) marked Juniper's entrance into the ethernet based "switch" market. The MX960 was launched as *Harry*, a full Layer 3 platform (MX-R), and later followed up with *Triton*, a software-locked VPLS-centric box using the same hardware (MX-X). The entire [MX-series](/MX-series "wikilink") platform is known as [codename](/codenames "wikilink") 'Atlas'. Technically the Juniper MX960 architecture does not resemble a traditional ethernet "switch" at all, but is instead implemented using the Juniper [I-Chip](/I-Chip "wikilink") 3.0 and other existing T-series hardware which has already been developed. Software changes allow the MX960 to function as a "switch", and perform integrated bridging and routing functions.

The MX960 has 14 vertical front-end slots, two (2) of which are reserved for [switch control boards](/switch_control_board "wikilink") (with onboard [RE-1300](/RE-1300 "wikilink") or [RE-2000](/RE-2000 "wikilink") routing engines), and twelve (12) of which are available for physical interfaces or an additional SCB (for line-rate redundancy; only two routing engines are supported). The MX series eliminates the concept of FPC+PIC, and uses new full-height cards which combine FPC+PIC functionality (including Tunnel PIC), known as [DPCs](/DPC "wikilink") (Dense Port Concentrators). At initial launch, the only two DPCs are a 4-port 10GE XFP-based card (LAN/WAN PHY), and a 40-port 1GE SFP-based card. A 40-port 10/100/1000 DPC is expected shortly thereafter, to be followed by a 2-port 10GE XFP+20-port 1GE-SFP Combo card.

[Category:Hardware](/Category:Hardware "wikilink") [Category:MX-series](/Category:MX-series "wikilink") [Category:Stub](/Category:Stub "wikilink")