---
title: SRX210
permalink: /SRX210/
---

([Codename:](/codenames "wikilink") *Loki*)
This was the smallest SRX Series for the branch device until the SRX100 came out.
Three models offered: SRX210B with 512MB of RAM, SRX210H with 1GB of RAM and SRX210H-POE with 4 ports PoE (50 W).
It runs on JUNOS! :-) With lots of software features, including: BGP, OSPF, RIP, MPLS/VPLS, IPsec VPN, UAC, statefull firewall with zones, screens and policies, virtual routers, UTM (IPS, AV), active/passive and active/active clustering with JSRP.
The branch SRX Series has separation of Control Plane & Forwarding by using multi-core processors, unlike the Intel based J-Series with Enhanced Services.

Upcoming:
SRX210 ICS with 2 FXS and 2 FXO ports.
‎[200px](/File:Lbox-srx210-ics-left.jpg‎ "wikilink")

Average power consumption:
27 W Low Memory (LM),
28 W High Memory (HM), 84 W (PoE)

more CPU info:
Cavium Networks OCTEON Plus CN5020 - Block Diagram
<http://www.caviumnetworks.com/OCTEON-Plus_CN50XX.html>

'''Built-in Interfaces: '''

2 x 10/100/1000BASE-T + 6 x 10/100

**Interface Modules:**

SRX-MP-1SERIAL 1-port Sync Serial Mini Physical Interface Module (Mini-PIM) for branch SRX Series

SRX-MP-1ADSL2-A 1-port ADSL2+ Mini-PIM supporting ADSL/ADSL2/ADSL2+ Annex A

SRX-MP-1ADSL2-B 1-port ADSL2+ Mini-PIM supporting ADSL/ADSL2/ADSL2+ Annex B

SRX-MP-1SFP 1-port SFP Mini-PIM for branch SRX Series

SRX-MP-1T1E1 1-port T1 or E1 Mini-PIM for branch SRX Series

Upcoming:

Single-port VDSL2

Single-port G.SHDSL

Single-port DOCSIS

'''3G ExpressCard: '''

EXPCD-3G-CDMA-V CDMA/EVDO 3G Modem ExpressCard34 for Verizon Wireless. For SRX and CX-Series. Ships with an external Antenna.

EXPCD-3G-CDMA-S CDMA/EVDO 3G Modem ExpressCard34 for Sprint. For SRX and CX-Series. Ships with an external Antenna.

[200px](/File:Lbox-srx210-3g-expcard.jpg "wikilink")

[Category:Hardware](/Category:Hardware "wikilink") [Category:SRX-series](/Category:SRX-series "wikilink") [Category:Stub](/Category:Stub "wikilink")